'\" t
.TH PKGTOOL 1 "Feb 15, 2012"
.SH NAME

spectool \- A tool for extracting information from \fBpkgbuild\fR(1) spec files

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B spectool [OPTIONS] \fIcommand\fI \fIspec...\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

spectool is a tool that parses a given list of \fBpkgbuild\fR(1) spec files
and can be used for extracting information from them.  Its primary purpose
is to facilitate scripting and interfacing with \fBpkgbuild\fR(1).

.SH OPTIONS

.SS General

.TP
\-v or \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity.  Use -v to prefix the output lines
with the name of the spec file they belong to.
.TP
\-q or \-\-quiet
Silent operation (no diagnostic messages).
.TP
\-\-rcfile=\fIfile\fR
Read default configuration from file.  Default: \fB./.pkgtoolrc\fR, \fB~/.pkgtoolrc\fR
.TP
\-\-norc
Ignore the default rc files.
.TP
\-\-ips
Print IPS package names, even on SVr4 systems, if \fBpkg(5)\fR is installed.
.TP
\-\-svr4
Print SVr4 package names, even on IPS systems.

.SS Directories and search paths:

.TP
\-\-specdirs=\fIpath\fR or \-\-spec=\fIpath\fR
Specify a colon separated list of directories to search for spec files in
\-\-topdir=\fIdir\fR
Use dir as the rpm base directory (aka \fB%topdir\fR, where the \fBSPECS\fR, \fBSOURCES\fR, \fBRPMS\fR, \fBSRPMS\fR, \fBBUILD\fR directories are found).  Default: \fB~/packages\fR
.TP
\-\-logdir=\fIdir\fR or \-\-log=\fIdir\fR
Write build logs to dir.

.SS Options controlling the build:

.TP
\-\-nodeps / \-\-deps
Ignore/verify dependencies before building a component.  Default: \fB\-\-deps\fR
.TP
\-\-with \fIfoo\fR or \-\-with\-\fIfoo\fR / \-\-without \fIfoo\fR or \-\-without\-\fIfoo\fR
These options are passed on to \fBpkgbuild\fR(1) as is.  They are used for enabling/disabling conditional build options.

.SS Commands:

.TP
eval \fIexpr\fR
Evaluate \fIexpr\fR in the context of each given spec file
.TP
get\_packages
List the packages defined in the given spec files
.TP
get\_sources
List the sources (defined by Source tags) used by
each given spec file.  Sources in \fI%use\fR'd spec files are also included.
.TP
get\_public\_sources
Same as \fIget\_sources\fR but list only the public
sources (omit those listed in a \fINoSource\fR tag)
.TP
get_block \fIblock\_name\fR
Print the expanded block (sctiptlet) called
\fIblock\_name\fR from each given spec file.  Example:
.sp
spectool get\_block prep foo.spec
.TP
get\_files
Print the files sections of each given spec file
.TP
get\_meta
Print the Meta tags defined in each spec file
.TP
get\_package\_names \fI[-a]\fR
Print the package names defined in each given
spec file.  Use \fI\-\-ips\fR or \fI\-\-svr4\fR to select the package
format, otherwise package names of the native format are printed.
Use \fI\-a\fR to include obsolete/renamed IPS packages.
.TP
match\_package\_names
Display how \fI%package\fR labels map to SVr4 package
names and IPS package names in each given spec file spec
.TP
get\_patches
Print the patches (defined by \fIPatch\fR tags) used by
each given spec files.  The patches in \fI%use\fR'd spec file
are also included.
.TP
get\_public\_patches
Same as \fIget\_patches\fR but only prints the public
patches (omits those listed in \fINoPatch\fR tags)
.TP
get\_requires \fIpackage name\fR
Prints the runtime dependencies (\fIRequires\fR
tags) belonging to package label \fIpackage name\fR and defined
in each given spec file.  Example:
.sp
spectool get\_requires SUNWgtk2\-devel SUNWgtk2.spec
.TP
get\_all\_requires
Prints all runtime dependencies (Requires tags) belonging to
all packages defined in the given spec file.
.TP
get\_prereq \fIpackage\_name\fR
Same as \fIget\_requires\fR but for \fIPreReq\fR tags.
.TP
get\_buildrequires
Prints the build-time dependencies of the given spec files.
.TP
get\_classes
Print any SVr4 classes (other than \fI"none"\fR) in each of the
given spec files.
.TP
get\_class\_script\_names
Print any SVr4 class action script names defined
in each of the given spec files.
.TP
get\_included\_files
Print all files included (using the \fI%include\fR
directive) in each given spec file, recursively.
.TP
get\_used\_spec\_files [\fI-l\fR]
Print all files referenced using the \fI%use\fR
tag in each given spec file.  With the \fI\-l\fR option,
print the labels assigned to the \fI%use\fR'd spec files as well.
.TP
get\_publish\_scripts
Print the path to the IPS publishing scripts
used for publishing each IPS package defined by the
given spec files.
.TP
get\_ips\_pkgname \fIfile\fR|\fIpackage_name\fR
Print the IPS package name and version that corresponds to the given
\fIpackage\_name\fR (IPS or SVr4) or \fIfile\fR.  No spec files arguments
are needed for this command.
.TP
get\_error
Print any syntax errors in the given spec files.
.TP
verify
Parse the given spec files and return 0 if they can
be parsed without errors, or non-0 if any of them have errors.


.SS Spec Files	

.TP
\fIspecs\fR...
List of spec files to process. Either full path names or names of spec
files in the spec directory search path.

Spec files are build recipes, similar to rpmbuild's spec files on
Linux systems.  You can find detailed information about spec files
in /usr/share/doc/pkgbuild/spec-files.txt

.SH EXAMPLES

Example 1: Print the value of the Version tag from each spec file in the
current directory, prefixing with the name of the spec file (\fI\-v\fR option):

spectool -v eval '%version' *.spec

Example 2: Print the \fIbuild\fR scriptlet of the given spec file, using
debug options:

spectool \-\-with\-debug get\_block build foo.spec

Example 3: Print the IPS package name of the package that contains
\/usr\/bin\/bash:

spectool get\_ips\_pkgname \/usr\/bin\/bash

.SH EXIT STATUS

The following exit values are returned:

.TP
0
SUCCESS (command passed for all spec files)
.TP
>0
FAILURE (the number of spec files that failed)

.SH FILES

.TP
/usr/bin/spectool
executable for pkgtool
.TP
.pkgtoolrc
configuration file for pkgtool, see the CONFIGURATION section in
\fBpkgtool(1)\fR for details.

.SH ATTRIBUTES

See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:

.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
=
Availability	package/pkgbuild
=
Interface Stability	Volatile
.TE 

.SH SEE ALSO

Spec file description in /usr/share/doc/pkgbuild/spec-files.txt

\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpkgbuild\fR(1), \fBpkgtool\fR(1), \fBpkg\fR(5), \fBpkgmk\fR(1)

.SH NOTES

Written by Laszlo (Laca) Peter, Oracle Corporation, 2012

.\" end of man page
